hi I'm dad today we're going to
introduce you to the ultra-thin radiant
floor heating system a simple powerful
radiant system that's remarkable for its
ease of installation and relative low
cost now we're going to walk you through
the basic installation steps in this
two-story house behind me here and at
the end we're going to show you three
different layouts for how to install the
system using a high-temperature boiler a
modulating boiler or a thermal heat pump
so if you got a minute
let's go warmer in there ultra thin is
designed specifically for wood frame
construction with ultra fins for zone
valve controllers the water is directed
through half-inch pressure tubing
suspended just below the floor sheathing
in the joist spaces as hot water moves
through the tubing the heat is conducted
to lightweight louvered aluminum plates
attached to the tubing called ultra fins
the ultra fins radiate the heat into the
air space between the joists creating
hot air convection the hot air in turn
warms the entire floor converting it
into a giant radiator which transmits
comfortable uniform heat throughout the
living space above
okay here we are we're getting things
ready this is Casey and Malcolm and
they're doing a little measuring is the
first step with ultra fin is to design a
layout for your fins and your tubing now
ultra fins installation manual will show
you how to lay out your system based on
your joist spacing and the ultra fin
ultra calc software will then help you
calculate how much tubing you're going
to need and how many fins ultra fin
allows you to install your tubing either
by running parallel with the joists or
by drilling and running through the
joists
in this example the guys have drilled
all their holes and are now pulling the
tubing through the joists when you run
your tubing loops ultra Finn recommends
that you run them no longer than 300
feet each from supply to return this
ensures that you get optimal heat over
the length of each circuit so your other
option and laying your tubing is to do
it parallel with the joists and if you
do that then you're going to hang it
from the sheathing with snake hangers
now they've done this half of the room
the guys are now going to do the second
half of the room it's important that you
start in the middle do one half then the
other that way you don't have to pull
the tubing through everything all at
once
Malcolm in case you've done off to work
on another room but we've got another
one of our crews here this is Stephanie
and Sarah and they're going to help us
by demonstrating how easy it is to put
on the fins with ultra fins new turnkey
system so Sarah go ahead and give us a
demo basically you just line up the fins
and goes the key give it a quarter turn
and that locks it in place now wasn't
that easy it's just that easy dad pretty
simple
the other way to do this is to run your
tubing parallel to the joists if you do
that then you're going to suspend it
from the floor sheeting using snake
hangers Sarah here is going to show us
how simple they are to put in just like
that
when insulating your rim joist McDuff Co
recommends using styrofoam insulation
pre-cut to fit each space once you've
got your styrofoam pieces cut it's a
simple matter to just snug fit them in
against the rim joist and if you do have
any gaps you can fill them in later with
some spray foam insulation good work
once you've insulated the rim joists you
insulate the entire system from
underneath and you're ready for wall
board one of the best features of the
ultra fence system is its flexibility in
working with different boilers if you're
using a high temperature boiler your
layout will need the least amount of
fins over the total area this is called
the ultra fin high temp system if you're
using a modulating boiler your layout
will use a few more fins over the total
area to increase the heat distribution
for the lower operating temperature we
call this the ultra fin modulating
system our installation here is just
about complete this is where the
manifold will go all the tubing lines
are running down here what we want to do
now is show you a few different
installations so you can see what it
looks like when it's all installed for
instance in this room you can see the
electrical and the plumbing is all in
the tubing lines are running through the
joists and we want to show you another
installation just so you can get an idea
of what that looks like over in this
room
this is the room where Sara and
Stephanie were demonstrating to us the
new ultra thin snake hanger and the new
turnkey that holds the fins on you can
see in this room all the tubing runs
parallel to the joists Sarah and
Stephanie have helped to give us a quick
overview of the ultra-thin system as you
can see it's simple to install goes
together quickly and easily with basic
tools if you're planning on installing
ultra fin be sure to consult the ultra
fin installation manual and match the
design specifications to your home
ladies thank you very much for coming
over and helping us out can we expect to
see you again anytime soon all right
we'll call you for our next project
thanks have a good trip to find out more
about the ultra fin radiant floor
heating system and its related products
visit our website at triple wo ultra fin
calm ultra fin comfortable heat through
proven technology
you